---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/race-information/drow/aspects-of-lolth/zinzerena/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# Zinzerena
	"We are always hunted. There is always someone stronger and we seek to rise 
	above such limitations through trickery, deception, and shadow. We see the 
	web that connects all drow, all creatures, together...and we alone have the 
	power to snip that which binds us or strengthen our bonds." -- Master 
	Nightbringer

The Zinzerena Clan is better known as The Clan of Shadows. Being led by master assassins, the Nightbringers, the Zinzerena clan takes pride in their artwork of killing. They thrive in the dark with their shadow magic, and are acutely aware of the power of truth, ambition, and secrecy and its impacts on all drow. It is in this understanding, this control, that they allow themselves to conquer their fear, form as a family, understand each other, and be better than any other clan or race. None can hide from those who command the unknown. 

# Summary
Zinzerena is the aspect of Lolth that rules over her scouts and assassins of dark elves. She is concerned with the precision and beauty in a kill, and in knowing one's enemy or terrain. She guides the blades of scouts and might even help formiddable foes to ensure her people grow through adversity. It is often that she causes distractions or chaos for patrols to keep them at their peak performance. She thrives in the dark arts of stealth, secrecy, and the unseen weapon in the dark. 

It is unlikely that any drow have felt Zinzerena's presence in their life, as she takes action through misdirection and in subtle ways. It is likely that the drow have fought alongside her spirit, yet will never know. She is relentless, as are her people, in times of peace as the paranoia sets in with knowing plans within plans of enemies. 

She inspires her people with dreams of assassination and of murder; however, she also inspires them with trust, safety, and chess-like maneuvers to achieve one's goals. She sows the seeds of murder in drow minds to inspire them to rise to high stations through efficient means. To be caught in the act is a worse crime against Zinzerena as it is to commit the act of murder itself, in her clan. Every murder is a prayer to Zinzerena, every accident is a rite in her name. Those who have mastered the art of assassination, of stealth, and of secrecy rise to the ranks of her elite -- The Nightbringers. Capable of toppling systems efficiently, of study and tracking unseen, and of mastering the dark arts of shadow, The Nightbringers are fearsome foes many never see before drawing their final breath. 

Zinzerena expects her followers to be secretive, ambitious, murderous, and trust in their fellow drow. Though there is history of orchestrating accidents to rise to one's station, there is a rite of passage to allow one to do so in Zinzerena. One must never kill a higher drow to rise unless said drow is seen to be a liar, weaker, or during times of mission. It is in knowing the times your lesser may strike that allows her warriors to place full trust in each other. They know a hunt under your command will never intentionally lead to another's murder. It is in times of peace, of restlessness, where the hierarchy shifts. This is to inspire her drow to continue ever forward, to focus on the mission of eliminating dragonkind, to strengthen their resolve, to work for the betterment of all drow and not oneself eternally. Even so, she expects kills to be works of art, to be untraceable and leave enemies bewildered. She delights in murder of a foe in public places with many witnesses, but leaving everyone unenlightened as to what happened. 

She believes in the power of lies, the danger of the light, and the fear of ambition. As such, before any mission, her drow partake in Heart Reading. Heart Reading is a ceremony where drow bare their souls, their secrets, their desires, no matter the consequence, to their fellow drow before heading on a hunt, scouting mission, patrol, or battle. It is in this reading of others' hearts that allows the trust of drow to build, to know another's intentions fully, and know that they set their ambition and desires aside for Zinzerena. As such, her people rarely lie between themselves, often to their own detriment, as lying is seen as heresy and the truth often leading to empowerment. Those who do not shy away from the truth, their own truth, are seen as better. This knowledge of secrecy, of what lurks in the dark, and the beauty of information makes the Zinzerena Drow better than any. 

It is in their pursuit of mastering the art of the assassination, controlling the shadows, and utilizing the truth that the drow hope to bring Lolth to her full power once more. For it is Zinzerena that allowed Vhontree Maeth and her people to hide from the dragonkind, it is she who saw through the lies of The Lothiriel Deception, and it is she who binds all drow together. 

She thrives on the fear of the hunted and the scared, and in this way the fear of all drow that rise to positions of prominence feeds and delights her. It is not folly to feel fear to Zinzerena, it is foolish to ignore said fear. She teaches drow to overcome, to be stronger in the face of being hunted even at their peak. Yet she teaches drow to know when it is time to feel fear, to know when it is time for the stronger to take over. Zinzerena helps her drow hunt for food, to track and slay monstrous enemies, and strike at the surface enemies. 

To the other aspects, Zinzerena is seen as untrustworthy. Though they bring the Heart Reading to other clans, many are doubtful of a Zinzerena Drow's intentions. They are feared as lurking in the shadows, as commanding truths and whispers, of mastering fate itself with strings of web to choke their enemies. Some believe it was Zinzerena herself who allowed The Lothiriel Deception to occur under the other aspects' noses. 