---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/race-information/tiefling/origin-of-tiefling/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

[[Race Information/Race Information|Return to Race Landing Page]]
# Tiefling
	"Those born of the deepest pits of deceit, they alone stand as bastions of 
	man's survivalist tendencies...and its inevitable folly." - Cathamaroon, 
	Seventh Scribe of the Mono'lak

# Summary
It was during [[The Scale War|The Scale War]] that humanity and elvenkind alike sought any means to rid their world of the threat of dragonkind. In this quest, they found an answer that would change the fate of their planet forever and bind them to another power: the betrayer gods of the nine Hells. It was in this forging of a link between realms that the tieflings were born of the most deadly of sins and it is with this burden the current tieflings must wrestle with. 

## Tiefling Creation
Seeking to put an end to the Metallic Dragon threat of the Scale War, elves and humans sought allegiance with a fabled being of the wilds that, despite the chaos of the war, had remained untouched by the blight of dragons. Through secret, unsanctioned, and dangerous exploration, [[The League of Explorers|The League of Explorers]] operated under the noses of their Metallic Dragon leaders. Leading them to believe they were scouting area of expansion, weaknesses in the Chromatic Regime, and in search of allies, The League, in truth, sought the fabled Druid. Through this, they came to map much of the world, discovering secrets long buried beneath rubble and stone. Eventually, The League's most daring, and youngest explorer, [[Ruthera|Ruthera]], found [[Arborah'dun|Arborah'dun]]. A sanctuary of the wilds deep in uncharted territory, said to exist outside shadow and beneath the light of the stars. In the center, the druid [[Æthelflæd|Æthelflæd]].

Ruthera was said to age many cycles in her meeting of Æthelflæd, commonly known as Thelfed. Though none other than Ruthera truly knows what occured within [[Arborah'dun|Arborah'dun]], one thing is for certain -- it led to the beckoning of the [[Divine Beings/The Betrayer Gods/The Betrayer Gods|Betrayer Gods of the Nine Hells]]. With knowledge of contacting beyond the Material, Ruthera struck a deal with a forgotten Betrayer God to grant her and her chosen the might to stand against dragons. The might to choose their own path. Few know how the demonic patronage of the Nine Hells handled the threat of the Metallic Dragons, but the consequences led to the creation a new people of bright skin, horns, and demonic lineage. Many believe that Ruthera, and her followers, traded something of equal value to the destruction of Metallic Dragons, and it manifested in a demonic foothold in the Material. Few have proof. Even fewer know the truth. 

Born with the power of the Nine Hells, a power dubbed [[The Fel|The Fel]], the Tieflings were thrust into the world in the aftermath of the war. Led by Ruthera, known as [[Ruthera|The Matron of Sacrifice]], the tieflings bare the mark of paying the ultimate price to save their home. Many view them as giving too much to end the war, some view them as honorific, and others are wary of their origins. None can deny that without Ruthera, the war would not have ended as it did. This weight of lineage, the gift of choice, and the burden of their bloodline, is ever present in a tiefling's mind. 
### Tiefling Subtypes
Depending upon which ring of the Nine Hells the tiefling is born of, the tiefling will have varied skin colors, horn appearance, tails, feet, and a core drive that which they grapple with.
#### Wrath
Tieflings that deal with wrath are those that are misinterpreted as only have fits of rage and poor anger control. However, tieflings that are born with Wrath in their blood must grapple with impatience, hateful misanthropy, revenge, and self-destructive behavior. 

Tieflings of [[Zariel|The Lord of the First]] have an appearance similar to that of their Matron Archduchess of Avernus: pale skin tone, pointed ears, and horns that resemble flames in curvature. Typically, they also have The Mark of the Flail upon their flesh. For some, their Mark is that of a birthmark, others a tattoo or brand etched into their flesh, and others born with qualities similar to that of The Lord of the First. 

#### Envy
Tieflings of envy are those that are misinterpreted as being deceivers, plotters, and schemers to the detriment of society. However, tieflings born of the Envy of the Second Ring of the Nine Hells must contend with the impossible truth that they want what they cannot have. Typically, this leads to feelings of depression and an unstoppable drive for advancement. Tieflings of this disposition are seen in powerful positions, or in line of said positions, yet are also seen as the most loyal. Many seek what they do not have for the betterment of their community.

Tieflings of [[The Iron Duke|The Iron Duke]] have an apperance similar to that of their Patron of Strife: skin of shades of purple, simple pointed horns with one disfigured or broken at birth, cloven feet, and a long spaded tail. Typically, they also have what is known as The Reflective Ruin, a curse that manifests in the alteration of mirrors to them (being invisible to them, cracking them, seeing others in mirrors, seeing differing personalities of themselves, or something similar). 

#### Greed
Tieflings born from the pits of greed are misinterpreted as thieves, beggars, and hoarders of treasure at the detriment of their society. However, they wrestle with the exact knowledge of the worth of the world, and see it squandered despite their advice and innate wisdom. As such, tieflings of greed typically take up the running of markets, shops, inns, and act as advisors to those in power. Typically, tieflings of greed deal with fits of anxiety and overthinking, spending much of their time on the possibilities rather than acting. They are as such seen as planners, and are typically respected when voicing opinions on matters of what is to come. 

Tieflings of [[The Covetous King|The Covetous King]] have an appearance similar to that of their Patron of Avarice: skin of gold/yellowed/human tone, two horns similar to that of an oxen, smaller horns upon their shoulders/back/arms, a long tail of a serpent, pointed ears, and a forked tongue. They are also born with The Covetous Eye, which is a runic tattoo branded into their flesh on the palm of their hands, nape of their neck, forehead, or other visible area. 

#### Lust
Tieflings born in the throws of Lust are misinterpreted as being lost within the pleasures of the sexual self or as "a slave of the devil." However, tieflings of lust are complex beings innately aware of what brings about pleasure to not just themselves, but others, society, and nature. They are aware of the primal call of putting oneself before others. This innate knowledge of pleasure, begets an innate knowledge of pain, knowing what to inflict or take away to make their enemies suffer. Lacking inhibitions completely, tieflings of this ring of the Nine Hells are often found partaking in many parts of leisure and fun in society, and leading others to do the same when they need it most. One will frequently find a tiefling of Lust at the height of their lives, or suffering from their consequences at rock bottom. Though, if one is lucky, they will share their tales.

Tieflings of the [[Unholy Union|Unholy Union]] share the appearance of their their Unnamed Betrayer Lord and Lady: skin of shades of red and pinks, horns of a goat, short spaded tails, and breathtaking looks. They are also born with the Chain of Love and Pain in whatever form it may take: a physical chain forever bound around their wrist, a chain of veins visible in their neck, tattoos of such chains on their ankles, or something similar. 

#### Acedia
Tieflings born within the frozen whirlpools of Acedia are misinterpreted as beings without remorse. Though slightly true, tieflings of acedia are accutely aware of the inevitability of life and death itself. They see actions as they are, emotions as they are, and are not beholden to them as much as their cousins might be. Prone to fits of melancholy and depression, tieflings of acedia can often be found as politicians, guards, hunters, or guides as they are the most objective of the tieflings. Tieflings of this ring of the Nine Hells must contend with their innate separation from the material, and as such are some of the most expressive tieflings to compensate. 

Tieflings of [[The Frozen Prince|The Frozen Prince]] share the appearance of their apathetic patron: skin of shades of blue, sharpened teeth, curved jagged horns, and birhtmarks of ice. They are born with The Eyes of the Seen, a condition that allows these tieflings to change their pupils and eye color at will.
#### Gluttony
Tieflings born in the delicacy of gluttony are misinterpreted as relentless devourers. However, they are accutely aware of not just the need all organisms have to eat, but the utmost care that must be taken with such need. They know of the waste in hunting, take care of what has been given to them by hosts and by Soven'dul, and are experts in what all living things crave -- sustenance. As such, they will often be found in city centers, feeding and caring for the populace, caring for crops, leading in herbalism, assisting hunters in utilizing every part of the prey, and even as alchemists for Crown and passion.

Tieflings of [[The Dark Prodigy|The Dark Prodigy]] share the appearance of their all encompassing matron: skin of shades of copper (sometimes feathered, orange, or tan), small horns, a stocky forked tail, glowing eyes, fangs, and hooves. They are born with remnants of the lost wings of the erinyes: typically scars on their back, small feathered or leathery wings incapable of flight on their back or waist, brands of intricate wings on their back, or something similar. 
#### Sloth
Tieflings born in the wake of sloth's innaction are misinterpreted as beings unwilling to do what is necessary. However, tieflings of sloth consistnetly contend with the feelings of rest, giving way to what is easy rather than what is difficult, and following their base inhibitions. Despite these feelings, perhaps because of them, tieflings of sloth are among the smartest of the subraces; seeking to do something efficiently and cleverly. They are aware of the consequences of innaction, as well as too swift of action, and thus move with purpose when they see fit. They shirk their responsibilities to do what they believe is best for themselves. As such, you will not often see tieflings of sloth in positions of power, though not unheard of, and will most likely find them in cozy places living as they see fit. 

Tieflings of [[The Fallen One|The Fallen One]] share the appearnace of their treacherous transformed patron: shades of green skin, a forked black tongue, horns or bison, and webbed fingers and toes. Tieflings of sloth are also born with The Fly: a manifestationof their patron's webs of intrigue. These manifestions could be physical (marks in their flesh), spiritual, mental, or take a literal form of one or multiple flies around their horns. 
#### Vainglory
Tieflings born in the boasts of vainglory are misinterpreted as sadistic, warriors born of and for the battlefield, and lovers of pain. However, tieflings of vainglory suffer consistently from self-doubt, as they feel the innate urge to stand among the rest and be confident in their prowess. They are not only aware of their own abilities, but others as well, and thus make excellent warriors in judgments and on the fields of battle. One will rarely find a tiefling of vainglory nto near battle or libraries as they seek to ensure their ultimate victory. They also are known for boasts, goading of foes into weakness, and cutting words. They excel as reporters of rulers, interviewers, and believe to see the truth in the lies of those who seek to rule. As their lord does, they too are contradicting in that they appear cold and calculating, but are capable of the might of flame itself when needed.

Tieflings of [[The Lord of Hellfire|The Lord of Hellfire]] share the appearance of their contradicting Cold Lord: skin of deep reds, tangled ram horns, pointed faces, fiendish claws, and long tail. They are also born with The Touch of Flame and Ice: three ever present wounds from their lord's three-pronged military fork. These wounds might be literal wounds, scars, metaphorical/figurative, or something else as their lord has marked them for his ring of the Nine Hells.
#### Pride
Tieflings born in the light of hubris are misjudged to be believing themselves infallible and more important. Though these tieflings definitely struggle with the most dangerous of the Nine Hells, they are aware that they alone control their destiny. They are, unfortunately, aware that they are in fact not the center of the realms, and that no one truly is. For it is in this acknowledgement that they seek to conquer and be seen as important, to be seen as worthy of the curse given to tieflings in the wake of the dragons' fall. They are often seen as leaders, working within the confines of the law to bring about their perceived notions of justice and safety, or working outside the confines of the law to bring about what they believe to be a better world. Whereas vainglory is to see oneself as powerful, pride is to see one's actions and knowledge as superior to shape the world as they believe it to be at its best. It is the shaper of worlds, instead of the shaper of oneself. As such, tieflings of pride appear in any facet of society, so long as they believe to be imparting their vision of the world directly.

Tieflings of [[The Raging Fiend|The Raging Fiend]] share the appearance of their Prince of Evil: skin of darkness and ash, horns, and eyes of flame. They are also born with The Shards of the Ruby: flecks of red in their eyes/skin, a gem embedded in their forehead/skin, a glint to their nails, a tail ending in a red diamond shape, or something similar.
### Feral Tiefling Subtypes
Legends speak of tieflings not born of Soven'dul in the Material, but of the Nine Hells themselves, sent forth by their creators with the pronounced visage of the Nine Hells -- wings, wild horns, and more demonic appearance as The Fel courses through them directly. Many believe the original tieflings of Soven'dul were the Feral Tieflings, and that their lineage has diluted the traits of old. Regardless, it is known that Feral Tieflings, once in the material, are feral in appearance alone and that they differ to the tieflings of common.
